"DSMC WWW Site"_dws - "DSMC Documentation"_dd - "DSMC Commands"_dc :c

:link(dws,http://dsmc.sandia.gov)
:link(dd,Manual.html)
:link(dc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

compute command :h3

[Syntax:]

compute ID style args :pre

ID = user-assigned name for the computation
style = one of a list of possible style names (see below)
args = arguments used by a particular style :ul

[Examples:]

compute 1 temp :pre

[Description:]

Define a computation that will be performed on a collection of
particles or grid cells.  Quantities calculated by a compute are
instantaneous values, meaning they are calculated from information
about the current timestep or iteration, though a compute may
internally store some information about a previous state of the
system.  Defining a compute does not perform a computation.  Instead
computes are invoked by other DSMC commands as needed, e.g. to
generate thermodynamic or dump file output.

The ID of a compute can only contain alphanumeric characters and
underscores.

Computes can be deleted with the "uncompute"_uncompute.html command.

Code for new computes can be added to DSMC (see "this
section"_Section_modify.html of the manual) and the results of their
calculations accessed in the various ways described above.

:line

Computes calculate one of three styles of quantities: global,
per-molecule, or per-grid.  A global quantity is one or more
system-wide values, e.g. the temperature of the system.  A
per-molecule quantity is one or more values per molecule, e.g. the
kinetic energy of each molecule.  A per-grid quantity is one or more
values per grid cell.  Computes that produce per-molecule quantities
have the word "molecule" in their style, e.g. {ke/molecule}.  Computes
that produce per-grid quantities have the word "grid" in their style,
e.g. {ke/grid}.  Styles with neither "molecule" or "grid" in their
style produce global quantities.

Note that a single compute produces either global or per-molecule or
per-grid quantities, but never more than one of these.

Global, per-molecule, and per-grid quantities each come in three
kinds: a single scalar value, a vector of values, or a 2d array of
values.  The doc page for each compute describes the style and kind of
values it produces, e.g. a per-molecule vector.  Some computes produce
more than one kind of a single style, e.g. a global scalar and a
global vector.

When a compute quantity is accessed, as in many of the output commands
discussed below, it can be referenced via the following bracket
notation, where ID is the ID of the compute:

c_ID | entire scalar, vector, or array
c_ID\[I\] | one element of vector, one column of array
c_ID\[I\]\[J\] | one element of array :tb(s=|)

In other words, using one bracket reduces the dimension of the
quantity once (vector -> scalar, array -> vector).  Using two brackets
reduces the dimension twice (array -> scalar).  Thus a command that
uses scalar compute values as input can also process elements of a
vector or array.

Note that commands and "variables"_variable.html which use compute
quantities typically do not allow for all kinds, e.g. a command may
require a vector of values, not a scalar.  This means there is no
ambiguity about referring to a compute quantity as c_ID even if it
produces, for example, both a scalar and vector.  The doc pages for
various commands explain the details.

:line

In DSMC, the values generated by a compute can be used in several
ways:

Global values can be output via the "stats_style"_stats_style.html
command.  Or the values can be referenced in a "variable
equal"_variable.html or "variable atom"_variable.html command. :ulb,l

Per-molecule values can be output via the "dump particle"_dump.html
command.  Or the per-molecule values can be referenced in an
"molecule-style variable"_variable.html. :l

Per-grid values can be output via the "dump grid"_dump.html command.
Or the per-grid values can be referenced in a "grid-style
variable"_variable.html. :l,ule

:line

Each compute style has its own doc page which describes its arguments
and what it does.  Here is an alphabetic list of compute styles
available in DSMC:

"ke/molecule"_compute_ke_molecule.html - temperature of each molecule
"temp"_compute_temp.html - temperature of all the molecules :ul

:line

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"uncompute"_uncompute.html

[Default:] none
