"DSMC WWW Site"_dws - "DSMC Documentation"_dd - "DSMC Commands"_dc :c

:link(dws,http://dsmc.sandia.gov)
:link(dd,Manual.html)
:link(dc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

fix inflow command :h3

[Syntax:]

fix ID inflow mix-ID face1 face2 ... keyword value ... :pre

ID is documented in "fix"_fix.html command :ulb,l
inflow = style name of this fix command :l
mix-ID = ID of mixture to use when creating particles :l
face1,face2,... = one or more of {all} or {xlo} or {xhi} or {ylo} or {yhi} or {zlo} or {zhi}
zero or more keyword/value pairs may be appended :l
keyword = {n} or {nevery} :l
  {n} value = Np = number of particles to create
  {nevery} value = Nstep = insert Np particles every this many timesteps :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

fix in inflow air all
fix in inflow mymix xlo yhi n 1000 nevery 10 :pre

[Description:]

Insert particles into the simulation box continuously during a
simulation.  The particles are inserted at the specified faces using
properties of the specified mixture.  If done every timestep, this has
the effect of a continuous influx of particles thru the face(s).

The properties of the inserted particles are from the mixture with ID
{mix-ID}.  This determines what particle species are in the mixture at
what relative fractions, and its number density, streaming velocity,
and temperature.  See the "mixture"_mixture.html command for details.

One or more faces of the simulation box can be specified via the
{face1}, {face2}, etc arguments.  There are 6 individual faces that
can be specified as {xlo}, {xhi}, {ylo}, {yhi}, {zlo}, or {zhi}.
Specifying {all} is the same as specifying all 6 individual faces.

On each insertion timestep, each cell with a face(s) adjacent to an
inflow boundary perform the following computation at the beginning of
the DSMC timestep.  The number of particles {M} to be inserted on the
face is calculated, which is a function of the global {Fnum} value,
the mixture number density, the mixture streaming velocity and thermal
temperature, the area of the face, and its orientation relative to the
streaming velocity.

If {M} has a fractional value, e.g. 12.5, then 12 particles will be
inserted, and a 13th depending on the outcome of a random number
generation.  Each particle will be inserted at a random location on
the face.  The particle species will be chosen randomly in accord with
the {frac} settings of the collection of species in the mixture, as
set by the "mixture"_mixture.html command.  The velocity of the
particle will be set to the sum of the streaming velocity of the
mixture and a thermal velocity sampled from the thermal temperature of
the mixture.  Both the streaming velocity and thermal temperature are
also set by the "mixture"_mixture.html command.

If the final particle velocity is not "into" the grid cell, then the
velocity sampling is repeated until it is.  This insures that {M}
particles enter the simulation domain as desired.

Inserted particles advect for a random fraction of the timestep, the
first time they are moved following insertion.  This insures a
continuous flow field of particles entering the simulation box through
that face.

The {n} and {nevery} keywords can be useful for debugging purposes.

If the {n} keyword is used, then the {Fnum} and {nrho} settings are
ignored and {Np} total particles are inserted every timestep particles
are inserted.  This is done on a per-grid basis by dividing {Np} by
the total number of grid cells that are adjacent to the specified
faces and inserting an equal number or particles per grid cell.

If the {nevery} keyword is used, particles are only inserted every
{Nstep} timesteps.  This will give non-continuous, clumpy behavior in
the inlet flow field if {Nstep} > 1.

:line

[Restart, fix_modify, output info:]

No information about this fix is written to "binary restart
files"_restart.html.  None of the "fix_modify"_fix_modify.html options
are relevant to this fix.

This fix computes a global vector of length 2 which can be accessed by
various output commands.  The first element of the vector is the total
number of particles inserted on the most recent insertion step.  The
second element is the cummulative total number inserted since the
beginning of the run.  The 2nd value is initialized to zero each time
a run is performed.

[Restrictions:]

Particles cannot be inserted on {z} faces of the simluation box for a
2d simulation.  Particles cannot be inserted on periodic faces of the
simulation box.

[Related commands:]

"mixture"_mixture.html, "create_particles"_create_particles.html

[Default:]

The keyword defaults are n = 0 and nevery = 1.

