"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://dsmc.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

mixture command :h3

[Syntax:]

mixture ID species1 species2 ... keyword args ... :pre

ID = user-defined name of the mixture :ulb,l
species1, species2, ... = zero or more species IDs to include in the mixture :l

zero or more keyword/arg pairs may be appended :l
keyword = {nrho} or {vstream} or {temp} or {frac} or {group} :l
  {nrho} arg = density
    density = number density of entire mixture (# per length^3 units)
  {vstream} args = Vx Vy Vz
    Vx,Vy,Vz = streaming velocity of entire mixture (velocity units)
  {temp} arg = thermal
    thermal = temperature of entire mixture (temperature units)
  {frac} arg = fraction
    fraction = relative number fraction for each listed species (0 to 1)
  {group} arg = {all} or {species} or group-ID
    all = put each listed species (or all species if none listed) in the "all" group
    species = put each listed species (or all species if none listed) in its own group
    group-ID = put the listed species in a group with this ID :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

mixture air N O NO group lite
mixture air N O NO vstream 250.0 0.0 0.0 group species
mixture air N frac 0.8
mixture air O frac 0.2
mixture background N O :pre

[Description:]

Define a gas mixture and its properties.  A mixture can be referenced
via its ID in several other SPARTA commands such as
"create_molecules"_create_molecules.html or "fix
ave/grid"_fix_ave_grid.html.  Any number of mixtures can be defined
and used in a simulation.

The ID of a mixture can only contain alphanumeric characters and
underscores.

A mixture is a collection of one or more particle species as defined
by the "species"_species.html command.  Some or all of the species can
be lumped together into groups, so that particles of all species in
the group are acted on together by other commands.  The mixture has
global attributes and per-species attributes.  All attributes have
default values unless they are explicitly specified.

Note that the mixture command can be used multiple times with the same
ID to add species to the mixture or change its attributes.

There are 2 default mixtures defined by SPARTA that always exist.

The first default mixture has an ID = "all", and contains all species
that have been defined.  When new species are added via the "species"
command, they are automatically added to this mixture.  This mixture
has only a single group, also named "all", which all species belong
to.

The second default mixture has an ID = "species", and also contains
all species that have been defined.  When new species are added via
the "species" command, they are also automatically added to this
mixture.  This mixture has one group per species, each with the
species name, so that each species that belongs to its own group.

:line

Zero or more species can be listed with the mixture command.  If a
species is not already in the mixture (from a previous mixture command
with the same ID), then the species is added to the mixture.

If the
mixture command sets per-species properties, as discussed below, then
those settings only apply to the species listed in this command, not
to other species previously added to the mixture.

The {nrho} keyword sets a global attribute of the mixture, namely its
density.  For 3d simulations the units of the specified {density} are
#/volume.  For 2d, the units are effectively #/area, since the
z-dimension thickness of the simulation box = 1.0.

The {vstream} keyword sets a global attribute of the mixture, namely
the streaming velocity.  Particles created using the mixture will have
the specified {Vx,Vy,Vz} values.

The {temp} keyword sets a global attribute of the mixture, namely the
thermal temperature of its particles.  When particles are created,
this value is used to sample a Gaussian velocity distribution, which
is superposed on the streaming velocity, when a particle's velocity is
initialized.

The {frac} keyword sets a per-species attribute for individual species
in the mixture.  Each species has a relative fractional density, such
as 0.2, meaning one out of 5 particles is that species.  The sum of
this value across all species in the mixture must equal 1.0.  The
{frac} keyword sets this value for the listed species.  If this value
is never set for M species out of the total N species in the mixture,
then when a simulation is run, the {frac} value for each of the M
species is set to (1 - sum)/M, where sum is the sum of the {frac}
values for the N-M assigned species.

Each species in the mixture is assigned to a group.  Groups are used
when performing collisions so that collisions attempts, partners, and
parameters can be treated on a per-group basis for accuracy and
efficiency.  The {group} keyword is used to make these assignments.

The specified group ID can be any string you choose.  Similar to the
mixture ID, it can only contain alphanumeric characters and
underscores.  Using the word "all" or "species" is used as a group-ID
has special meaning as discussed below.  For any other ID, the listed
species are assigned to that group.  Normally this should only be done
once for each species, so that groups are not left empty.  If a
species was previously assigned to another group, then it is
re-assigned.

If "all" is used as the group-ID and no species are specified, then
all previously defined groups are deleted, and all species in the
mixture are assigned to the same group, with group-ID = "all".  If
individual species are listed in the mixture command, then only those
species are (re)assigned to a group with group-ID = all.  This is also
the default behavior for the mixture command for any new species
specified; if the {group} keyword is not used, the new species are
assigned to a group with group-ID = "all".

If "species" is used as the group-ID and no species are specified,
then all previously defined groups are deleted, and each species in
the mixture is assigned to its own group, with group-ID = the species
name.  If individual species are listed in the mixture command, then
only those species are (re)assigned to a group with group-ID = the
species name.

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"global"_global.html, "create_molecules"_create_molecules.html

[Default:]

The {nrho}, {vstream}, and {temp} defaults are those defined for the
background gas density, as set by the "global"_global.html command.
The {frac} default is described above.  The {group} default (if new
species are listed) is "all".
