"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://dsmc.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

read_grid command :h3

[Syntax:]

read_grid filename :pre

filename = name of grid file :ul

[Examples:]

read_grid grid.sphere :pre

[Description:]

Read in a description of a uniform or hierarchical grid from a file,
which will overlay the simulation domain defined by the
"create_box"_create_box.html command.  The grid can also be defined by
the "create_grid"_create_grid.html command.

When a uniform or hierarchical grid is defined in a file, it contains
1 or more parent cells, and some number of child cells.  Parent cells
have children; child cells do not.  In the current SPARTA
implementation, all processors own a copy of all parent cells.  The
child cells are each owned by a unique processor; they are assigned by
this command to processors in a round-robin fashion, as they are
created when the file is read.  The "balance_grid"_balance_grid.html
command can be used after the grid is defined, to assign them to
processors in a more structured manner.

:line

A grid file contains only a listing of parent cells.  Child cells are
inferred from the parent cell definitions.

A grid file has a header and a body.  The header appears first.  The
first line of the header is always skipped; it typically contains a
description of the file.  Then lines are read one at a time.  Lines
can have a trailing comment starting with '#' that is ignored.  If the
line is blank (only whitespace after comment is deleted), it is
skipped.  If the line contains a header keyword, the corresponding
value is read from the line.  If it doesn't contain a header keyword,
the line begins the body of the file.

The body of the file contains one or more sections.  The first line of
a section has only a keyword.  The next line is skipped.  The
remaining lines of the section contain values.  The number of lines in
a section depends on the section keyword as described below.  Zero or
more blank lines can be used between sections.  Sections can appear in
any order.

The formatting of individual lines in the grid file (indentation,
spacing between words and numbers) is not important except that header
and section keywords must be capitalized as shown and can't have extra
white space between their words.

These are the recognized header keywords (only one for this file).
Header lines can come in any order.  The value(s) are read from the
beginning of the line.  Thus the keyword {parents} should be in a line
like "1000 parents".

{parents} = # of parent cells in file :ul

These are the recognized section keywords for the body of the file
(only one for this file).

{Parents} :ul

The {Parents} section consists of N consecutive entries, where N = #
of parents, each of this form:

index parent-ID Nx Ny Nz :pre

The index is ignored; it is only added to assist in examining the
file.  Typically, the indices should run consecutively from 1 to N.

The parent-ID is a string of numbers (one per level) separated by the
dash character, e.g. 12-352-65.  The first number is which level 1
cell (from 1 to N1) this cell descends from, the second number is
which level 2 cell (from 1 to N2) this cell descends from, etc.  The
final number (after the final dash) is which cell (from 1 to N) this
cell is within its own level.

As an example, the ID 12-352-65 means the following ...

The lines in the {Parents} section must be ordered such that no parent
cell is listed before its own parent cell appears.  A simple way to
insure this is to list the single level 0 cell first, all level 1
parent cells next, then level 2 parent cells, etc.

A parent-ID of 0 is a special case; it is used to define the level 1
grid for the entire simulation box, i.e. the parent cell of the level
1 grid has an ID = 0.  Thus the first line of the {Parents} section
should be something like

1 0 10 10 20 :pre

which means the level 1 grid has 10x10x20 cells.

The level parameter is the level of the parent cell.  This is 0 for
the entire simulation box, 1 for cells in the level 1 grid that are
parents (i.e. will be partitioned into level 2 cells), 2 for cells in
the level 2 grid that are parents, etc.

Px,Py,Pz are

For 2d simulations, {Pz} and {Cz} must both equal 1, in every parent
cell line in the file.

[Restrictions:]

This command can only be used after the simulation box is defined by
the "create_box"_create_box.html command.

In principle, the hierarchical grid used by SPARTA can have as many
levels as you wish.  Internally, the hierarchy corresponding to each
grid cell is converted into a 64-bit integer ID.  Explain it further.
Practically speaking this means you are limited to about 8 levels.

[Related commands:]

"create_box"_create_box.html, "create_grid"_create_grid.html

[Default:] none
