"Previous Section"_Section_perf.html - "DSMC WWW Site"_dws - "DSMC
Documentation"_dd - "DSMC Commands"_dc - "Next
Section"_Section_modify.html :c

:link(dws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(dd,Manual.html)
:link(dc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

9. Additional tools :h3

DSMC is designed to be a computational kernel for performing
molecular dynamics computations.  Additional pre- and post-processing
steps are often necessary to setup and analyze a simulation.  A few
additional tools are provided with the DSMC distribution and are
described in this section.

Our group has also written and released a separate toolkit called
"Pizza.py"_pizza which provides tools for doing setup, analysis,
plotting, and visualization for DSMC simulations.  Pizza.py is
written in "Python"_python and is available for download from "the
Pizza.py WWW site"_pizza.

:link(pizza,http://www.sandia.gov/~sjplimp/pizza.html)
:link(python,http://www.python.org)

Note that many users write their own setup or analysis tools or use
other existing codes and convert their output to a DSMC input format
or vice versa.  The tools listed here are included in the DSMC
distribution as examples of auxiliary tools.  Some of them are not
actively supported by Sandia, as they were contributed by DSMC
users.  If you have problems using them, we can direct you to the
authors.

The source code for each of these codes is in the tools sub-directory
of the DSMC distribution.  There is a Makefile (which you may need
to edit for your platform) which will build several of the tools which
reside in that directory.  Some of them are larger packages in their
own sub-directories with their own Makefiles.

