"DSMC WWW Site"_dws - "DSMC Documentation"_dd - "DSMC Commands"_dc :c

:link(dws,http://dsmc.sandia.gov)
:link(dd,Manual.html)
:link(dc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

stats_style command :h3

[Syntax:]

stats_style arg1 arg2 ... :pre

arg1,arg2,... = list of statistical attributes :ulb,l
  possible attributes = step, elapsed, dt, cpu, tpcpu, spcpu,
                        npart, vol, lx, ly, lz, xlo, xhi, ylo, yhi, zlo, zhi,
			c_ID, c_ID\[I\], c_ID\[I\]\[J\],
                        f_ID, f_ID\[I\], f_ID\[I\]\[J\],
                        v_name :pre

      step = timestep
      elapsed = timesteps since start of this run
      dt = timestep size
      cpu = elapsed CPU time in seconds
      tpcpu = time per CPU second
      spcpu = timesteps per CPU second
      npart = # of particles
      vol = volume of simulation box
      lx,ly,lz = simulation box lengths
      xlo,xhi,ylo,yhi,zlo,zhi = box boundaries,
      c_ID = global scalar value calculated by a compute with ID
      c_ID\[I\] = Ith component of global vector calculated by a compute with ID
      c_ID\[I\]\[J\] = I,J component of global array calculated by a compute with ID
      f_ID = global scalar value calculated by a fix with ID
      f_ID\[I\] = Ith component of global vector calculated by a fix with ID
      f_ID\[I\]\[J\] = I,J component of global array calculated by a fix with ID
      v_name = scalar value calculated by an equal-style variable with name :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

stats_style step cpu npart temp
stats_style step temp cpu spcpu npart xlo xhi c_myTemp :pre

[Description:]

Set the content of statistical data printed to the screen and log
file.

The values printed by the various keywords are instantaneous values,
calculated on the current timestep.

Options invoked by the "stats_modify"_thermo_modify.html command can
be used to set the numeric precision of each printed value, as well as
other attributes of the statistics.

:line

The {step} and {elapsed} keywords refer to timestep count.  {Step} is
the current timestep, or iteration count when a
"minimization"_minimize.html is being performed.  {Elapsed} is the
number of timesteps elapsed since the beginning of this run.

The {cpu} keyword is elapsed CPU seconds since the beginning of this
run.  The {tpcpu} and {spcpu} keywords are measures of how fast your
simulation is currently running.  The {tpcpu} keyword is simulation
time per CPU second, where simulation time is in time
"units"_units.html.  The {spcpu} keyword is the number of timesteps
per CPU second.  Both quantities are on-the-fly metrics, measured
relative to the last time they were invoked.  Thus if you are printing
out statistical output every 100 timesteps, the two keywords will
continually output the time and timestep rate for the last 100 steps.

:line

The {c_ID} and {c_ID\[I\]} and {c_ID\[I\]\[J\]} keywords allow global
values calculated by a compute to be output.  As discussed on the
"compute"_compute.html doc page, computes can calculate global,
per-particle, or per-cell values.  Only global values can be
referenced by this command.  However, per-particle or per-cell compute
values can be referenced in a "variable"_variable.html and the
variable referenced, as discussed below.

The ID in the keyword should be replaced by the actual ID of a compute
that has been defined elsewhere in the input script.  See the
"compute"_compute.html command for details.  If the compute calculates
a global scalar, vector, or array, then the keyword formats with 0, 1,
or 2 brackets will reference a scalar value from the compute.

The {f_ID} and {f_ID\[I\]} and {f_ID\[I\]\[J\]} keywords allow global
values calculated by a fix to be output.  As discussed on the
"fix"_fix.html doc page, fixes can calculate global, per-particle, or
per-cell values.  Only global values can be referenced by this
command.  However, per-particle or per-cell fix values can be
referenced in a "variable"_variable.html and the variable referenced,
as discussed below.

The ID in the keyword should be replaced by the actual ID of a fix
that has been defined elsewhere in the input script.  See the
"fix"_fix.html command for details.  If the fix calculates a global
scalar, vector, or array, then the keyword formats with 0, 1, or 2
brackets will reference a scalar value from the fix.

The {v_name} keyword allow the current value of a variable to be
output.  The name in the keyword should be replaced by the variable
name that has been defined elsewhere in the input script.  Only
equal-style variables can be referenced.  See the
"variable"_variable.html command for details.  Variables of style
{equal} can reference per-particle or per-cell properties or stats
keywords, or they can invoke other computes, fixes, or variables when
evaluated, so this is a very general means of creating statistical
output.

See "Section_modify"_Section_modify.html for information on how to add
new compute and fix styles to DSMC to calculate quantities that can
then be referenced with these keywords to generate statistical output.

:line

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"stats"_stats.html, "stats_modify"_stats_modify.html

[Default:]

stats_style step cpu npart :pre
